Book: Packaging (#93)
rust-lang-nursery/cli-wg: src/tutorial/packaging.md

Another way is to use pre-built (Docker) images
that contain all the tools we need
to build binaries.
This allows us to easily target more exotic platforms, too.
The [trust] project contains
scripts that you can include in your project
as well as instructions on how to set this up.
It also includes support for Windows using AppVeyor.

If you'd rather set this up locally
and generate the release files on your on machine,
still have a look at trust.
It uses [cross] internally,
which works similar to cargo
but forwards commands to a cargo process inside a Docker container.
The definitions of the images are also available in
[cross' repository][cross].

[trust]: https://github.com/japaric/trust
[cross]: https://github.com/rust-embedded/cross

### How to install these binaries

The release artifacts we've just generated are nothing special:
At the end, they are just archive files that contain our binaries!
This means that users of your tool
can download them with their browser,
extract them (often happens automatically),
and copy the binaries to a place they like.

This does require some experience with manually "installing" programs,

> so you want to add as section to your README file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
so you want to add a section to your README file
```

on how to install this program.

<aside class="note">

**Note:**
If you used [trust] to build your binaries and add them to Github releases,
you can also tell people to run
`curl -LSfs https://japaric.github.io/trust/install.sh | sh -s -- --git your-name/repo-name`
if you think that makes it easier.

</aside>

### When to use it

Having binary releases is a good idea in general,
there's hardly any downside to it.
It does not solve the problem of users having to manually
install and update
your tools,
but they can quickly get the latest releases version
without the need to install Rust.

## Getting your app into package repositories

Both approaches we've seen so far
are not how you typically install software on your machine.
Especially command-line tools
you install using global package managers
on most operating systems.
The advantages for users are quite obvious:
There is no need to think about how to install your program,

> if it can be install the same way they install all other tools.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
if it can be installed the same way as they install the other tools.
```

This does require some experience with manually "installing" programs,
so you want to add as section to your README file
on how to install this program.

<aside class="note">

**Note:**
If you used [trust] to build your binaries and add them to Github releases,
you can also tell people to run
`curl -LSfs https://japaric.github.io/trust/install.sh | sh -s -- --git your-name/repo-name`
if you think that makes it easier.

</aside>

### When to use it

Having binary releases is a good idea in general,
there's hardly any downside to it.
It does not solve the problem of users having to manually
install and update
your tools,
but they can quickly get the latest releases version
without the need to install Rust.

## Getting your app into package repositories

Both approaches we've seen so far
are not how you typically install software on your machine.
Especially command-line tools
you install using global package managers
on most operating systems.
The advantages for users are quite obvious:
There is no need to think about how to install your program,
if it can be install the same way they install all other tools.
These package managers also allow users to update their programs

> when a new versions becomes available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
when a new version is available.
```

> Sadly, supporting many different systems means

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sadly, supporting different systems means
```

# Packaging and rendering documentation

If you feel confident that your program is ready to for other people to use,
it is time to package and release it!

There are a few approaches,
and we'll look at three of them
from "quickest to set up" to "most convenient for users".

## Quickest: `cargo publish`

The easiest way to publish your app is with cargo.
Do you remember how we added external dependencies to our project?
Cargo downloaded them from its default "crate registry", [crates.io].
With `cargo publish`,
you too can publish crates to [crates.io].
And this works for all crates,
including those with binary targets.

Publishing a crate to [crates.io] is pretty straight-forward:
If you haven't already, create an account on [crates.io].
Currently, this is done via authorizing you on Github,

> so you'll need to have Github account

Reviewer: ```suggestion
so you'll need to have a Github account
```

(and be logged in there).

> Next, you need to log in with cargo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, you need to log in using cargo.
```

and will be included not only on the crates.io page of your crate,
but also what Github shows by default on repository pages.

</aside>

[crates.io]: https://crates.io/
[crates.io account page]: https://crates.io/me
[publishing guide]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/1.30.0/cargo/reference/publishing.html
[cargo's manifest format]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/1.30.0/cargo/reference/manifest.html

### How to install a binary from crates.io

Now that we've seen how to publish a crate to crates.io,
you might be wondering how to install it.
In contrast to libraries,
that cargo will download and compile for you
when you run `cargo build` (or a similar command),
you'll need to tell it to explicitly install binaries.

This is done using
`cargo install <crate-name>`.
It will by default download the crate,
compile all the binary targets it contains
(in "release" mode, so it might take a while)
and copy them into the `~/.cargo/bin/` directory.
(Make sure that your shell knows to looks there for binaries!)

It's also possible to
install crates from git repositories,
only install specific binaries of a crate,
and specify and alternative directory to install them to.

> Best have a look at `cargo install --help`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Best thing is to have a look at `cargo install --help`.
```

Author: I'm pretty sure "Best have a look at" is a thing people say. Might be colloqial, though. I'll try to come up with a completely different way to express this :)

### When to use it

`cargo install` is a simple way to publish a binary crate.
It's very convenient for Rust developers to use,
but has some significant downsides:
Since it will always compile your source from scratch,
users of your tool will need to have
Rust, cargo, and all other system dependencies your project requires
installed on their machine.
Compiling large Rust code bases can also take some time.
Furthermore, there is no simple way to update tools installed with cargo:
User will need to run `cargo install` again at some point,
and pass the `--force` flag to overwrite the old binaries.

> Best use this for distributing tools

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Best to use this for distributing tools
```

For example:
A lot of cargo subcommands
like `cargo-tree` or `cargo-outdated`
can be installed with it.

## Distributing binaries

Rust is a language that compiles to native code
and by default statically links all dependencies.
When you run `cargo build`
on your project that contains a binary called `grrs`,
you'll end up with a single binary file called `grrs`,
that has no (or only very few)
external dependencies.
That means,
you take that one file
and send it to people running the same operating system as you,
and they'll be able to run it.

This is very powerful!
It also works around two of the downsides we just saw for `cargo install`:
There is no need to have Rust installed on the user's machine,
and instead of it taking a minute to compile,
they can instantly run the binary.

As we've seen,
`cargo build` _already_ builds binaries for us.
The only issue is,
those are not guaranteed to work on all platforms.
If you run `cargo build` on your Windows machine,
you won't get a binary that works on a Mac by default.
Is there a way to generate these binaries
for all the interesting platforms
automatically?

### Building binary releases on CI

> If your tool is open source,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your tool is open sourced,
```

and hosted on Github,
it's quite easy to set up a free CI (continuous integration) service
like [Travis CI].
(There are other services that also work on other platforms, but Travis is very popular.)

> This basically runs a set up commands

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This basically runs setup commands
```
(unless you meant `runs set of commands`)

in a virtual machine
each time you push changes to your repository.
What those commands are,

> and which types of machines they run one,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and the types of machines they run on,
```
